---
title: Rich Dad Poor Dad
bookAuthor: Robert T. Kiyosaki
---

_Rich Dad Poor Dad_ might be the book I recommend the most to people who ask
for personal finance material. It contains practical, actionable knowledge
about money and wealth that is presented in an easy-to-understand way. It's the
financial background that is missing from formal education.

## Setting

The title "Rich Dad Poor Dad" references Kiyosaki's real father and his
friend's father: one was very wealthy, the other was poor. His real father was
highly educated with a Ph.D. and had attended several prominent universities,
each time on a full ride. His friend's father did not finish eighth grade.

Spoiler alert: his friend's father, the one who did not finish eighth grade, is
his "Rich Dad." Kiyosaki talks about the financial education he got from both
fathers, but most of the book is spent talking about what he learned from his
Rich Dad.

## Main Takeaway

As is usually the case with such an informative book, it's difficult to pick
out a single idea or concept to talk about. However, Kiyosaki's explanation of
assets vs. liabilities is what had the most impact on me.

Many of us accept common financial ideas without giving them any thought. For
example, perhaps the most common idea (as Kiyosaki mentions in the book) is:
"My home is my greatest asset." However, Kiyosaki's definitions of an asset and
a liability turns this idea completely on its head.

It's simple: an **asset** is something that puts money _into_ your pocket, and
a **liability** is something that takes money _out of_ your pocket. Using this
definition, it becomes quite clear that a home might in fact be a person's
greatest _liability_. The expenses that go along with owning a home are nearly
constant and usually include taxes, home-owner's insurance, utility expenses,
and miscellaneous expenses such as repairs.

Also, using these definitions, Kiyosaki puts into very simple terms the key
difference between wealthy people and poor people: wealthy people buy assets;
poor people buy liabilities. This caused a complete paradigm shift for me in
terms of personal finance which in turn made me re-evaluate and change many of
my financial goals.

## Conclusion

The above topic is just one of several great topics discussed in the book,
including general financial literacy, the history of taxes and corporations,
and how wealthy people leverage their time and money.

Do not read this book looking for tips on how to get rich quick. Read this book
for a foundational education in personal finance that is unfortunately not
taught in school.
